add new article for windows and semgrep (#1157)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/kb/semgrep-cloud-platform/running-semgrep-on-windows.md

---
description: Use this reference to run Visual Studio Code on Windows systems with the Semgrep extension.
tags:
  - Windows
  - Visual Studio Code
  - WSL
---

# Visual Studio Code and Semgrep on Windows
Semgrep has developed an [extension](https://semgrep.dev/docs/extensions/semgrep-vs-code/) to be used in Visual Studio Code. 

> The good news is that it can be used in a Visual Studio Code installed on Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The extension can be used in Visual Studio Code installed on Windows, but you'll need to install WSL and add Semgrep to it.
```

> The steps to install and use it are as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to set up WSL, Semgrep, and the VS Code extension:
```

1. Install WSL. 
2. Install [Semgrep on WSL as Python package.](https://semgrep.dev/docs/getting-started/#installing-and-running-semgrep-locally)
3. Run `semgrep login` to get the login URL for the Semgrep Cloud Platform. Open the login URL in the browser and login.

> 4. Install Visual Studio Code on Windows, you can use [this guide.](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/windows)

Author: I will remove this line

5. Install WSL extension for Visual Studio Code. Check [these steps.](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/wsl)
6. Install Semgrep extension for Visual Studio Code. Check [how to install an extension.](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/extension-marketplace#_install-an-extension)
7. Open the project from the Windows Command line with commands as `code /mnt/c/PATH_TO_TO_YOUT_PROJECT`

You can scan with Semgrep now, clicking on the Semgrep icon in the right down corner!

![image info](/img/kb/vscode-windows.png)

> > **Note:** To write this article a Windows 10 was used to test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info
This setup has been tested on Windows 10 with VS Code <X> and Semgrep <Y>. If you're having trouble with installation on other versions, [reach out to us](/docs/support). 
:::
```

Reviewer: X and Y would need replacement here before final release :)

> > **Note:** As the date to write this article (August 2023) install Semgrep as a Python package is not supported, please, check in the [Semgrep documentation](https://semgrep.dev/docs/getting-started/#installing-and-running-semgrep-locally) if it is already supported.

Reviewer: I recommend removing this line. We should just update the docs and KB if this process is no longer required.

Author: I will remove this line

```
docker run --rm -v "%cd%:/src" -e SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN=YOUR_SEMGREP_TOKEN returntocorp/semgrep semgrep ci
```

# What happens with Visual Studio Code
Semgrep has developed an [extension](https://semgrep.dev/docs/extensions/semgrep-vs-code/) to be used in Visual Studio Code. 
The good news is that it can be used in a Visual Studio Code installed on Windows.
The steps to install and use it are as follow:

1. Install WSL. 
2. Install [Semgrep on WSL as Python package.](https://semgrep.dev/docs/getting-started/#installing-and-running-semgrep-locally)
3. Run `semgrep login` to get the login URL for the Semgrep Cloud Platform. Open the login URL in the browser and login.
4. Install Visual Studio Code on Windows, you can use [this guide.](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/windows)
5. Install WSL extension for Visual Studio Code. Check [these steps.](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/wsl)
6. Install Semgrep extension for Visual Studio Code. Check [how to install an extension.](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/extension-marketplace#_install-an-extension)

> 7. Open the project from the Windows Command line with commands as `code /mnt/c/PATH_TO_TO_YOUT_PROJECT`

Reviewer 2: @sebasrevuelta Just checking - are they always required to run VSCode from the Windows Command Line? They can't start VSCode from the start menu or a shortcut?

Author: Hey @s-santillan, they can start VSCode from the start menu or a shortcut. It is NOT mandatory to start VSCode from the command line.

Reviewer: Maybe we can just say "Open the project in VS Code" then?
